## CalX Quick system guide
This manual page quickly describes system quick configuration and basic usage. Links to advanced manual sections are also provided.

CalX system distribution consists of several files, all of them should be unpacked and placed in one directory. CalX UI (graphical user interface) may be opened by executing `calx_ui.exe`. It will search for available configurations (and show a selection dialog if multiple configurations are available). Then selected driver will be loaded and the main program window will appear (as well as debug console, if debug mode is on). [Detailed UI description](gui.md)

CalX may be preconfigured to execute Lua scripts of the start. Then it will perform initialization automatically. The rest of this manual assumes that initialization is performed manually.

Before starting the work you should configure utilized devices on the first window tab. Some devices may be preloaded by current driver, but some of them must be connected at runtime. Generally, you should review already connected devices (check their parameters, state and power) and then connect other necessary devices using buttons on the top of first tab (after clicking connection dialog will appear).

After device configuration you may switch to the second tab called 'Coordinate Planes'. There you can create coordinate plane using devices configured before (be careful while selecting devices, check their correspondence with physical X-Y axis). Then coordinate plane should be 'configured' (otherwise it will lack some useful functionality like previews) - most convenient way is clicking 'Configure' button in the position plane on the right (then plane will be automatically measured and centered).

After that you are able to manipulate with coordinate plane or switch to the 'Tasks' tab. There you can load and perform different complex actions.
* GCode task - you should prepare a file with so-called GCode (which may be generated by different tools: Inkscape plugin, dxf2code converter etc.). This GCode can be executed by CalX (however supported instruction set is quite limited. [See compatibility](compat.md)).
* Linear task - create a sequence of lines on selected plane. You may adjust line configuration and spacing.
* Programmed task - program motor movement manually using graphics controls.

CalX system may display different error types. Errors are indicated using error codes. All codes are described [there](error.md). CalX mathematical engine is quite simple and its essential features are explained [here](math.md). You may read full manual page list [there](README.md). CalX repo is on [GitHub](https://github.com/protopopov1122/CalX)

System parameter configuration is located at 'Configuration' tab. Some parameters may be changed there and they will instantly affect the system, others must be changed from used `*.conf.ini` file. CalX also supports Lua scripting and includes a simple mathematical calculator.
